1.	Python is an object-oriented programming language that provides a programmer the necessary 
environment and tools to solve complex problems much more efficiently compared to a manual 
approach. Since manual problem solving involves the possibility of human error and is limited by 
the speed of the worker, efficient coding is much preferable to carry out tasks ranging from 
everyday routine checklists to much more complex and tedious tasks in which humans are 
basically guaranteed to be too slow and make mistakes. Python takes specific instructions and 
commands from the programmer for web and software development and for data creation and 
analysis uses. There are also many other general uses that someone can use someone can 
benefit from Python coding. It is universally regarded as one of the most efficient and simple to 
use programming languages due to its accessibility, syntax simplicity, versatility, and simple 
interface. In fact, Python is the third most popular programming language used in the world. The 
capabilities of using the python language expands due to catalogue of modules and libraries 
containing useful functions that is continuously growing and available to the public. Python is an 
open-source software, which means that anyone is free to contribute to use the programming 
language and contribute to its development.
2.	The Python language has three different data types to interpret and manipulate data. Some 
widely used data types include integers, floats, strings, and Boolean values. Integers are whole 
number data values and can be positive or negative. Their syntax in Python is (int). Floats, 
known as floating point numbers, are positive or negative number data values with one or more 
decimal points. Their syntax in Python is (float). Strings are text data values that are stored 
between quotation marks, and their syntax in Python is (str). Boolean values are either true or 
false, and their syntax in Python is (Bool). A programmer can use the type() function to output 
the type of data he or she is working with. A particular data type can also be converted into a 
different data type to allow programmers to seamlessly work with the different data types to 
produce code. 
3.	When programming to solve a complex problem, a programmer may find himself repeating 
similar tasks within the same project and will want to organize this to make the code simpler to 
understand and efficiently execute. Some of these repeated tasks involves taking an input from 
the programmer/user to produce an output. Repeating lines of code that perform identical tasks 
causes the code to be less organized and makes the system work harder by reading more lines 
of character before executing the code. Programmers remedy this through the use of functions. 
In Python, the keyword (def) allows lines of code to be mapped to a function name of the 
programmer’s choice. After defining a function, a programmer can now simply call upon the 
function’s name to perform the task that was previously coded without using those lines of 
code.
4.	Python’s print statement allows a programmer to output messages. Using the print function 
with the argument “print(/n)” produces blank line. “print(‘’)”will output an empty line. A 
programmer may choose to use a value directly as an argument to produce the value as an 
output, or use a variable that represents a value to print that output. Within the print function 
argument, a programmer can merge different strings and variables that represent strings to 
produce a concatenated message output. A programmer can use the print function to display all 
data types, however, there will be an error if they try to merge different data types within the 
same print function argument. The print function can be used to separate merged arguments 
using the “sep=” argument. Programmers can also use the print function to write messages to a 
file by using the “file=” argument within the parentheses. 
